In this video, we are going to go through and create the controller for our jokes app, you can see
here that I have issue number four open to create the joke controller.
So I will commit to GitHub under this issue.
So when I come over to Intelligent now and we'll go ahead and do the implementation some over an anthology.
And what I like to do is do a logical layout.
So we'll go ahead and create a package for our controller.
So if this project were to grow, we'd keep our code organized into packages.
So find things easier and I'm just going to call those controllers like so.
And now I'm going to come up here, create a new job, a class.
Some say Joe controller and attempt to get.
I'm going to come up here and say.
Market as a controller.
Now, let's go ahead and implement the controller itself, and we want to do is we do want to bring
in the choke service.
I'm going to do private final.
Joke service, so.
You can see that's not happy, so I do command and I'm going to generate the constructor using ontology
and initialize the joke service like so and here if we mark this is all the wired spring is going to
automatically inject that.
Now, one thing that we can do here is we can actually omit that because we have a single constructor
on the class.
Spring will automatically do dependency injection for us.
So that was a change.
I think it was in spring for two that they provide that functionality.
So it collapses in ports here.
And let's go ahead.
And now what we want to do is implement the controller method itself.
So here we'll do public.
It's going to return back a string for the view name and we'll say show Joe.
This is going to take on the model.
And here, what we can do is say on that model, it gets brought in, we will add an attribute and attribute
and here what we want to do is add in joke as a joke property.
And then we want to take our jobs service.
Get joke for that method.
Remember, the model's effectively a map implementation, so we are adding in a property with the string
of joke and then the joke string so that then we'll be able to reference that from our view.
Now, it's pretty simple controller implementation.
And what we want to do is return back.
We'll just call it index like so.
And then finally, we need to set up the mapping.
So here we want to annotate it.
Do request mapping.
And this year will give Ray.
And empty string, so so that's going to give us the path, so if we have a trailing, there are nothing
we could even do index and index on GOMO, but this is good enough for our purposes.
So a request come to it going to the root of the context that is running the application context.
I want to come in to the root.
We are going to invoke this method for the request to be processed.
So this is going to go on through spring.
MVC will go through set that joke property.
That model is going to get returned back to our timely few.
So a quick recap.
What I did in this video is we went and created the controllers package.
I added in a Java class called Joke Controller.
I annotated it with the spring stereotype of controller.
And then I set up a final property for the joke service, created a constructor, which you initialize
the joke servicio, remember best practices to code to an interface for dependency injection.
And then in this we are declaring that variable is final so we can construct the class.
And then with the constructor we are initializing the joke service and by having it final can never
be changed by something else in the class.
And finally, on line 22 there we are doing the show joke.
This is a method that's going to get invoked when we come into the context that we have to request mapping.
You can see the two properties that we set there on an empty string.
So this is going to go in for the root.
And then very simple.
All we are doing is we're adding in an attribute to the model with the property a joke, and then we'll
add the joke string from the joke service and then we return back the string index and that's going
to spring MVC that we want to do the index.
Few will implement the index view in the next video.